HARI SREENIVASAN: Good
evening. I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: Gwen
Ifill and Judy Woodruff are on
assignment.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I caught up with
Hillary Clinton in Iowa, where
she disclosed she is against
the massive trade agreement
announced this week by President
Obama. We also talked about
guns, Vladimir Putin
and her e-mails.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate: What I
know about it, as of today, I am
not
in favor of what I
have learned about it.
GWEN IFILL: I'm in Seattle,
where I sit down with two of the
world's biggest philanthropists
and two of the largest voices in
education: Bill and Melinda
Gates.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Plus, on a
different stage, recording
artist Josh Groban visits our
studio
to discuss his latest album,
covers of songs from Broadway.
JOSH GROBAN, Musician: There's
the goose bump thing, where the
melody or whatever it is
just gets you and you don't know
why. Sometimes, it's in a genre
that you didn't think you
liked and, all of a sudden, the
song hits you and you just say,
wow, I feel the hairs
on the back of my neck.
I love this song.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's "PBS
NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: In a moment,
Judy's and Gwen's headline
interviews with Hillary Clinton
and Bill and Melinda Gates, but
first the day's news, starting
with Clinton's decision
to oppose the Trans-Pacific
trade agreement. It's her
biggest break yet with President
Obama, but she says the deal
does too much for big drug
companies and not enough to
create
jobs.
Russia sharply escalated its
military campaign in Syria
today, adding missile might to
an
aerial assault. It came in
conjunction with a new ground
offensive. They launched from
Russian warships in the Caspian
Sea, as seen in Russian military
video, 26 medium-range
cruise missiles
streaking toward Syria.
Russian animation showed the
missiles flew more than 900
miles, crossing Iran and Iraq,
aimed at targets in Raqqa and
Aleppo provinces, plus Idlib
province to the northwest.
Amateur
video appeared to show some of
the missile strikes were timed
to coincide with a Syrian
ground assault in Idlib
and Hama provinces.
From Moscow, meeting with his
defense minister, President
Vladimir Putin praised the
results.
VLADIMIR PUTIN, Russian
President (through translator):
The fact that we have performed
strikes with precision weapons
from the Caspian Sea area to the
distance of 1,500 kilometers
and hit all the planned targets
means good advance preparation
of the military industrial
sector and good
training of the staff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But plenty of
questions remained about who's
taking the brunt of Russia's
air campaign. Turkish leaders
claimed again today the real
targets are moderate rebels
fighting the Assad government.
AHMET DAVUTOGLU, Turkish Prime
Minister (through translator):
These airstrikes are not carried
out against the Islamic State.
Russian air forces carried out
57 airstrikes, and according
to the information we received,
only two of these airstrikes are
against Islamic State.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The head of
one American-trained rebel
faction confirmed that Russian
planes
have bombed his weapons
depots in Aleppo and Homs.
And in Italy, U.S. Defense
Secretary Ash Carter echoed the
complaint.
ASHTON CARTER, U.S. Defense
Secretary: They continue to hit
targets that are not ISIL.
We believe this is a fundamental
mistake. Despite what the
Russians say, we have not
agreed to cooperate with Russia,
so long as they continue to
pursue a mistaken strategy
and hit these targets.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Meanwhile,
Russia's military buildup in the
Eastern Mediterranean has
escalated
over the last week, now
including 10 navy ships, a
number described by NATO
officials
as out of the ordinary.
A rebel group supported by the
U.S. says Russian soldiers are
taking part in the Syrian ground
offensive. The Russians deny
sending in any ground troops.
There's word the FBI has foiled
repeated attempts in Eastern
Europe to smuggle radioactive
material
to Middle Eastern extremists.
The Associated Press reported
the findings today. It cited
four incidents in the past five
years, the latest in February
involving gangs with suspected
Russian ties. In that case, a
smuggler sought a buyer from the
Islamic State group.
President Obama apologized today
for a deadly airstrike in
Kunduz, Afghanistan. Last
Friday's
attack killed at least 22 people
at a hospital run by Doctors
Without Borders. Mr. Obama
telephoned the group's
president today.
JOSH EARNEST, White House Press
Secretary: He believed that it
was appropriate for the
United States to do what we have
done before, which is to
acknowledge that a mistake had
been made, to offer an apology,
to do so in a transparent way,
to own up to our mistakes,
and to vow to carry out a full
investigation of to get to the
bottom of what exactly happened,
so that we can learn
from this incident.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Doctors
Without Borders has called for
an independent investigation,
but the White House says the
president didn't directly
address that demand today.
A defense bill worth $612
billion is headed to the
president's desk, despite a veto
threat.
The Senate approved it today
70-27, enough to override a
veto. It already has passed
in the House. The president
objects to the way Congress
provided the money by padding
a war-fighting account and
denying new money for domestic
agencies.
France and Germany joined forces
today, urging the European Union
not to fracture under the
strain of debt and refugees.
French President Francois
Hollande and German Chancellor
Angela
Merkel appeared before the
European Parliament, and
Hollande warned against
returning to go-it-alone
nationalism.
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE, French
President (through translator):
Focusing on sovereign interest
is a road to decline and it's
also dangerous not to give a
people hope, not to build
anything
together, but to turn in on each
other, without any future. Faced
with these trials, I am
convinced that if we don't go
further, it will be the end of
the European project.
HARI SREENIVASAN: For her part,
Merkel said Europe faces a test
of historic proportions.
The flood disaster in South
Carolina surged toward the coast
today. One swollen river
crested at record levels in
Kingstree, and Conway and
Georgetown braced for bad news
as well. Back around Columbia,
crews worked to shore up the
52-year-old Beaver Dam. But
the governor rejected criticism
that many of the state's dams
have fallen into disrepair.
GOV. NIKKI HALEY (R), South
Carolina: You have got a
1,000-year flood. And out of
thousands
of dams, right now, we're
watching 62 of them; 13 have
failed. Look at the proportion
of
that. And even of the ones
they're working on, when you
have floods of this magnitude,
it is really amazing that we
have not had more issues than we
have had.
HARI SREENIVASAN: More than 400
roads and bridges are also being
checked and remain
closed for now. Long-distance
traffic on part of Interstate 95
is having to make a 170-mile
detour.
Authorities in Roseburg, Oregon,
have issued a detailed new
account on how a gunman died
after killing nine people at a
community college. They say
Chris Harper Mercer was wounded
by
police, then shot himself in a
classroom in front of his dead
and wounded victims.
Meanwhile, "People" magazine is
publishing the names and phone
numbers of every member
of Congress in an effort to
encourage action to decrease gun
violence.
The Nobel Prize for Chemistry
was presented today to three
scientists who discovered how
the human body repairs its own
DNA. The honorees are Tomas
Lindahl of Sweden, Aziz Sancar
of
Turkey and American Paul
Modrich. Nobel officials say
their research is leading to new
treatments
for cancer and other diseases.
GUNNAR VON HEIJNE, Nobel
Committee for Chemistry: It is
based on the idea that cancer
cells
already have kind of a weakened
DNA repair system. So then if
you can come in with a
drug that makes the DNA repair
systems even less functional,
the cancer cells will really
go bad, because they cannot
repair at all their DNA anymore.
And very quickly, this
will degrade the DNA and the
cancer cells cannot survive.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Scientists
estimate human DNA is damaged
daily by everything from solar
radiation to cigarette
smoke to pollution.
On Wall Street, the Dow Jones
industrial average gained more
than 120 points to close at
16912.
The Nasdaq rose more than 40
points, and the S&P 500 added
16.
And there's more fallout from
claims of insider trading at
fantasy sports Web sites. The
industry
leaders, FanDuel and DraftKings,
said today they are banning all
employees from playing
any such daily games for money.
There've been allegations that
an employee at DraftKings
had unfair access to special
data, before winning $350,000 in
a FanDuel contest.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
Judy's interview with Hillary
Clinton; Gwen's discussions with
Bill and Melinda Gates;
recording artist Josh Groban on
his latest album, and much more.
The Clintons have had a tough
time in Iowa. Candidate Bill
Clinton lost the Democratic
caucuses here in 1992. Hillary
Clinton lost to Barack Obama in
2008.
This time around, she's spending
a lot of time in the Hawkeye
State, today with students
a town hall meeting at Cornell
College in Mount Vernon.
And that's where I caught
up with her this afternoon.
Secretary Hillary Clinton,
thank you for talking with us.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate: Thank
you so much, Judy. I'm glad to
see you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, let's start
with the big announcement from
President Obama this week
about a trade deal, the
Trans-Pacific Partnership, the
U.S. and 11 other countries,
covering
40 percent of the global
economy, 800 million consumers.
It's already started a big
battle between people who love
free trade and people who
care more about protectionism.
Where do you come down?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Well, I
have said from the very
beginning that we had to have
a trade agreement that would
create good American jobs, raise
wages, and advance our national
security.
And I still believe that's the
high bar we have to meet. I have
been trying to learn
as much as I can about the
agreement, but I am worried. I'm
worried about currency
manipulation
not being part of the agreement.
We've lost American jobs to the
manipulations that countries,
particularly in Asia,
have engaged in.
I'm worried that the
pharmaceutical companies may
have gotten more benefits, and
patients
and consumers fewer. I think
that there are still a lot of
unanswered questions. Sometimes,
they look great on paper. I
know, when President Obama came
into office, he inherited a
trade
agreement with South Korea. I,
along with other members of the
Cabinet, pushed hard
to get a better agreement. We
think we made improvements.
Now, looking back on it, it
doesn't have the results we
thought it would have, in terms
of access to the markets,
more exports, et cetera.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, are you
saying that, as of today, this
is not something you could
support?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: What I
know about it, as of today, I am
not in favor of what
I have learned about it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, is President
Obama wrong? He is vigorously
defending this. He's saying
that it does protect jobs. He
says that, when it comes to
worrying about jobs, that
automation
and technology are more
responsible than trade
agreements.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Look, I
think the president has been
extraordinarily effective
in making as strong a
case as could be made.
But I do worry that we have got
an equation here. How do we
raise incomes in America?
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, just quickly,
if this agreement is rejected,
Asia experts are saying, this
is going to influence -- it's
going to decrease the influence
of the U.S. in Asia, it is going
to give a boost to China, which
is trying to become more
dominant. And doesn't it
conflict
with your pivot to Asia when
you were secretary of state?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I don't
think so, because the best way
that we can exercise
influence in Asia is to remain
the world's strongest economy
here at home.
And that means we have to have
more middle-class jobs, more
people being in the middle
class,
more people being able to get
into the middle class. And we
haven't looked at this from
a competitive perspective,
because the Republicans have
stood in the way.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mentioned the
middle class. You have said you
would favor middle-class
tax cuts.
My question is, would yours be
bigger or smaller than what the
Republicans have put out there?
Donald Trump is out there with a
plan. Jeb Bush is out there with
a plan. What would
yours look like?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Well, I
want to have families be able to
invest in what they tell
me they care about. How do they
pay for child care? How do they
pay for college? How do
they pay the daily expenses of
health care and the other things
that are really straining
the family budget?
I have looked at the plans
produced on the other side by
Donald Trump, by Jeb Bush and
others. They would explode the
deficit. And, once again, they
are so tilted toward the
rich, it's embarrassing. And
we know that doesn't work.
So, when I roll out my tax plan,
it is very much focused and
targeted on the middle class.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Your private
e-mail server. The Washington
Post fact-checker, Glenn
Kessler,
wrote this weekend that when you
speak publicly about how you
handle the disclosure requests,
you don't include the fact that
the first request came just to
you from the State Department
based on the
congressional inquiry.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Well, my
understanding of what happened
is that the State Department
had e-mails that they gave to
the committee that was formed,
we now know, to politically,
in a partisan way, go after me,
not investigate what happened in
Benghazi, and that we had
already provided those e-mails
because they were already on the
State.gov system.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But the first
request came to you alone in
response to the committee.
And I guess Glenn Kessler's
point is that this was the
indication that the State
Department
didn't realize before that, that
you were conducting government
business on your -- solely
on your private server.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I
e-mailed with hundreds of people
in the State Department, across
the government, some even in the
Congress, and so that is just
not credible.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Why wouldn't it
have been better at the very
beginning of all this to simply
say, I did this, I wanted a
private server because I have
been through this kind of thing
before, I didn't want Republican
congressmen rifling through my
personal e-mails?
HILLARY RODHAM
CLINTON: That's...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Wouldn't that
have done away with the
controversy, done away with
people
now saying they don't trust you?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Well,
all I can tell you, Judy, is
that that's not what happened.
I didn't give any thought to it.
I had used my own e-mail. I got
into the State Department's.
It was allowed. I did it for
convenience. My husband already
had a system. I just added
on to the system. Now,
that's what happened.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You have
commented on what Kevin McCarthy
said about the political nature
of this committee.
But what do you expect from
Chairman Trey Gowdy when those
hearings get under way on
October 22?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I
don't know what to expect.
I do know that it's pretty much
pulled the curtain back, that
this was set up to be a
political partisan attack on me.
Of course, you know, that
probably is something we could
have concluded earlier, since
there had already been seven
investigations. And now we see
the Congress setting up a
special committee to look into
Planned Parenthood.
It's really sad to me that,
whether it's women's health, or,
in this case, the death of four
Americans serving our country,
that the Republicans in Congress
try to partisanize and exploit
these events.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Something else in
foreign policy, Syria, you came
out and have said you would
favor the idea of a no-fly -- of
setting up a no-fly zone to
protect refugees and others.
But, in talking to experts, they
say, in order to do that, you
would have to take out Syria's
air defenses, most of which --
or at least much of which are in
urban areas. In other
words, you would have to go into
an area, risk huge civilian
casualties, in order to
set up this no-fly zone.
Is that something you're
prepared to take on?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Well,
there are different parts of the
countries with different levels
remaining of air defense.
What I want to do is to see if
we can't get a coalition of all
the countries that have
a stake in this, including the
Russians, to agree on three
things. One, we have to do
as much as possible to end the
conflict. We have to stop the
refugee flow by helping people
have a safe space to stay in and
to get supplies, medical and
food and other things. And we
have to begin the process
of a political transition.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Would you be
prepared to shoot down Russian
planes if they flew into this
no-fly area?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: No, the
point is to have the leverage of
this discussion.
The Russians have already
invaded Turkish airspace. Turkey
is a NATO ally. They are
now on notice if they invade the
airspace of a NATO ally, there
will be actions taken.
This is in the absence
of a no-fly zone.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do
you mean actions taken?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Well,
they have been put on notice, as
I understand it, from NATO.
Turkey sent up fighters. That's
a pretty strong sense of notice,
that, Russia, get out of
our airspace.
So, we need to send a clear
message to Russia. They are
going after those who oppose
Assad,
under the guise of going after
ISIS, which is the common enemy
of everyone. And we need
to begin to push back on them,
so that they don't engage in
behavior that invades Turkish
airspace.
And that's why I think it's
absolutely imperative that
Secretary Kerry begin immediate
talks
with everybody at the table to
try to, as they say, deconflict
the airspace and put
the Russians on notice.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You have dealt
President Putin. You favored the
so-called reset with Russia
in 2009.
My question, is did you and
others in the administration
misread Putin and underestimate
what he was capable of doing?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Well,
remember, when President Obama
came into office, Putin was
not president. Medvedev was
president. And Medvedev turned
out to be a good partner.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But Putin was
always in the background.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Well, he
was, but he was letting Medvedev
make the decisions,
backed up by him.
Now, when Putin decided in the
fall of 2011 that he wanted to
go back and be president,
and basically announced it, we
knew that we were going to have
a lot tougher time, because
he was taking back the
presidency to assert himself
and, therefore, assert Russia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, doesn't that
add up to misreading what was
going on?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: No,
I don't think so at all.
When we dealt in 2009, 2010, and
the first part of 2011 with the
Russian government,
sitting across from Medvedev in
many meetings, we got results.
Putin comes back, of course
you have to readjust, because
he's coming back with an agenda.
It's an ongoing challenge,
because of the way he behaves
and how he basically wants
to, you know, push the
boundaries in Europe and now in
the Middle East.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me bring you
back home to the subject of guns
and gun control and
the aftermath of this terrible
shooting at the community
college in Oregon.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This week, you
came out for tightening controls
on guns and you talked
about what you would
do differently.
Is this really laying out the
defining difference between you
and Senator Sanders when it
comes
to gun control?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Well,
look, I think -- this is
something I care passionately
about.
I have been -- I have spoken out
and tried to work on this for
more than 20 years. I
have a record. I'm going to
defend my record. I will let
others speak to their records.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Are you saying
that's a contrast with Senator
Sanders?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I'm
saying, this is my position. And
others will state their
positions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You have said
that the super PAC that is out
there supporting you, at least
one of them, that they're there
really to criticize Republicans.
But one of the PACs that is
supporting you is now attacking
Senator Sanders. I guess
my question is, is, do you
approve of this, of going after
Senator Sanders by the super
PAC? We know there
is coordination.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Well, I
don't know anything about what
you're saying. I have
no knowledge of
what they're doing.
I have said I want anybody
supporting me to go after
Republicans, because, whatever
differences
we might have on the Democratic
side, they pale in comparison to
the really substantive
differences we have
with the Republicans.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Would you call on
them to cease and desist and
stop criticizing Senator...
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I have
just said I want them to -- I
want people who support
me to go after Republicans.
That's what I have -- I have
said it before. I'm saying
it again on this show.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, and just
continuing in that vein, the
David Brock group, it's been
reported this week in "New York
Magazine," is digging through
Vice President Biden's
past, his record, so-called
opposition research. My question
is, do you approve of this?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: You
know, I -- first of all, I have
no knowledge of it.
I have been clear. Anybody who
listens to my public statements,
anybody who pays attention
to what I say, I want to give
Vice President Biden whatever
space and time he needs to
make his decision.
Now, if he gets into the
election, then people are going
to be raising questions, just
like
they do about me. That's what
happens when you get into the
arena. But I'm not asking
and I don't approve of anybody
who is supporting me, or say
they support me, to be focusing
on anyone other than
the Republicans.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, for you to
-- you're saying that you
weren't aware that they were
doing
this and you don't approve of
it, but the fact that they're
doing it, isn't that really
an effort to intimidate the vice
president against getting into
the race?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Judy, I
have -- I don't know anything
about it. I can't comment
on it any further than I have.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you believe
that -- Vice President Biden has
made it very clear he's
looking at getting in. How does
it change the race if he gets
in?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Well, if
he gets in, I will continue to
speak positively about
him, because I feel that way. We
have been friends a long time.
But I will put forth my
platform, what I want to do, to
build on what President Obama
has
done. And then the Democratic
voters will make their decision.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Secretary Hillary
Clinton, we thank you very much
for talking with us.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON:
My pleasure. Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: They have spent $35
billion so far tackling malaria
and AIDS and Ebola abroad.
But here at home, their laser
focus has been on education
reform, which has catapulted
them into the middle of a
2016 political debate.
I sat down today in Seattle
with Bill and Melinda Gates.
Melinda, Bill Gates, thank
you for joining us.
MELINDA GATES, Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation: Thanks for
having us.
GWEN IFILL: For better or worse
this year, education is a
campaign issue. You can say
that is good news, that's bad
news. How do you see it,
Melinda?
MELINDA GATES: I think the fact
that education is part of the
public discourse in an election
year is incredibly important,
because education for us in
America is the bridge to equal
opportunity.
And so, if it's not working for
everybody, we need to be
discussing that as a nation.
So, in that sense, it's
actually a good thing.
GWEN IFILL: But the discussion
is all about Common Core and
about whether standardized
testing, and however you choose
to define Common Core, is the
right idea.
Do you worry that the whole
issue that you have pushed to
support, this idea of raising
achievement through standardized
testing and other ways, do you
worry that politics is
obscuring Common Core arguments?
BILL GATES, Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation: Well, it is
concerning that the facts about
Common Core are often obscured.
The Common Core sets high
standards for what math, reading
and writing kids should learn
in high school, and it helps get
the progression down, so that
even if a kid is moving from
state to state, if they're using
online material, it's all
benchmarked the same way. And if
a kid graduates from high
school, they will know that they
don't have to go and take
remedial
classes.
So, it's a very important
advance. It's a standard that is
allowing for a lot of
innovation,
where people build elements that
connect up to the Common Core.
So, we're seeing great
results. Kentucky was the first
state to go ahead with it.
They're actually the state
that's seen the most improvement
in a lot of their test scores,
and even in their high
school graduation rates.
So, it's rolling out. It's a
foundational piece that will
help improve things.
GWEN IFILL: How did the worm
turn on this debate, from so
many states adopting it so
quickly, to so many people,
especially Republicans, saying,
if you endorse this, it's a
disqualifying
feature?
MELINDA GATES: Well, I think
it's important to look back.
It was the state governors and
the state superintendents who,
in 2006, said, this is right for
each
of our states. This is what we
want, because if these are
standards are set properly, we
know that our kids are on a
learning trajectory to learn
what they need to know to be
part
of the knowledge economy.
So, that's when it was set.
There has been a lot of
political now debate about --
and
people have confounded it with,
is it federal control vs. state
control? No, it's states
who are deciding this. A few
states have actually rolled back
the Common Core, but it's
interesting.
What they have put in, in place
of it is 95 percent the Common
Core. It just is a different
word.
But 42 states and the District
of Columbia are still doing the
Common Core, because they
know it's right. And more
important, quite honestly, than
the political debate that goes
on is what's happening with
teachers in the schools.
When you survey teachers across
the nation whose states have
Common Core in place, they
say, we like it. It's hard to
implement, but we know it's the
right thing for our students.
Our students are learning the
things that they need to learn.
So, they believe in it. And so,
in some ways, the political
discourse just isn't, thank
goodness, trickling down to the
reality of what's happening in
schools.
GWEN IFILL: How have you been
able to -- or have you been able
to measure that these higher
standards have led to
hiring achievement?
MELINDA GATES: Well, so,
Kentucky is a fantastic example.
They're the first state that put
the Common Core into
place statewide.
And what we're seeing is that
their graduation rate has gone
up, and that's incredibly
important.
But even more important is the
college readiness rate. And that
is, before -- before they put
the Common Core standards in, 34
percent of kids who graduated
from their high schools
were actually ready
to go to college.
Today, that number is 62
percent. That means that kids
are going into college and
they're
succeeding. They know they're
ready to go and they're not
having to be remediated and
then dropping out. That is a
profound change in just a few
years.
GWEN IFILL: Let's talk about
what's happening here in your
hometown of Seattle, where the
-- there was a recent teachers
strike, in part over some of
these issues. And a judge
struck down the charter schools
that were supposed to begin
here.
I wonder whether that -- this
example makes you rethink how
you can sell what it is you
have.
BILL GATES: Well, most states
do have charter schools.
And although only about 5
percent of kids go to those
schools, they have been
laboratories
where a lot of good things have
been learned. For example, this
idea of, how do you give
teachers more feedback, how do
you help teachers get better, a
lot of charter schools really
invested in doing that. And then
-- and we are seeing some of
those now be adopted broadly,
so that all students
can benefit from them.
We are very disappointed that
courts saw that the way that the
charter referendum that the
voters approved, the court said
that the way it was funded was
inappropriate. And so we're
hopeful that charters will be
restored in the state. It's
possible they won't. That
would be a real
disappointment to us.
We're among the people who have
invested. We have got 1,200 kids
in charter schools
whose fate are up in the air.
Some people are trying to get
those defunded, which is
-- for those nine schools that
are in place, you know, that
seems like a bad thing to want
to shut those down.
But we do have charters in most
states, and we think they can be
a place where good learnings
take place.
GWEN IFILL: What about the
students who are opting out of
these tests, especially here
in Seattle, who are just saying,
I don't want to take part in
this, there are too many tests?
MELINDA GATES: Well, I think
you're hearing that from some
students and some parents.
And I think, when new
assessments go in, you have to
say, what assessments are we
taking
out? We have to have
assessments. They are very
important tests to know whether
kids
who are learning what they need
to know against the Common Core
standard, whether in fact
they are learning the material,
so we know by the end of the
year.
But I think some of those are
also myths about the numbers of
kids dropping out. If you look
at Louisiana, they talked about
thousands of kids dropping
ought. It turns out it's
less than 1 percent of the kids
who dropped out of the state
tests. That tells you how
important parents and students
know they actually are.
GWEN IFILL: When you say that
some of the numbers have been
skewed, is that because
teachers who don't want to be
subject to those tests are the
ones driving some of this
unrest?
MELINDA GATES: Well, I think you
get both parents and teachers
who get concerned. I
would be concerned if my child
was tested too many times in the
year.
But I think, sometimes, what
happened with the Common Core
is, it got rolled out. The
standards -- the teachers agreed
with the standards. They
believed in them. But then
the tests came out very quickly
thereafter. And teachers will
tell you, teaching to the
Common Core is hard. They have
to step up their game in the
classroom. And it takes
a while to get that
implementation down. And they
need a few years before the
testing begins.
So there were a few states that,
quite honestly, went too fast
with the tests. And I think
that's where you started to
see some of the pushback.
GWEN IFILL: So, what's the fix?
BILL GATES: Well, in fact, tests
where students are told what
they got wrong, and they use
it as an opportunity to learn
and see, OK, how should this
concept work, tests are a
very good thing done properly.
So, it would be very unfortunate
out of this if people thought,
oh, we shouldn't test students,
we shouldn't test doctors, we
shouldn't test drivers, you
know, tests are kind of this
bad thing. You can make
mistakes, particularly how many
tests do you have that are those
summative tests at the end, how
-- are those really that
beneficial vs. the classroom
time?
But, overall, testing is a
fundamental piece. And it should
be about making them better,
instead of saying, OK, let's
just take the day off.
GWEN IFILL: In the years that
you have been undertaking this
enterprise to fix America's
education system, what would you
say has been the least pleasant
and the most pleasant surprise
that you have picked
up along the way?
BILL GATES: Well, it's always so
encouraging when you go in and
see a great teacher at
work, whether that's in a
charter school or public school,
to see that energy and the
sense of potential those kids
feel when that teacher is not
only educating them, but giving
them confidence.
Then, when we see things that
are designed to help teachers
improve, that are, you know,
pretty good, but there's some
fear about how those systems are
run, when those are shut
down, and teachers aren't
getting any feedback at all,
that's disappointing.
You know, we need to get to a
point where teachers really love
the professional feedback
they're given. And that's a
struggle, to design those
systems, to keep them in place,
until
they get so good that teachers
wouldn't want to live without
them.
MELINDA GATES: I think the most
encouraging thing is, yes, when
you see great teaching
happen in the classroom, and we
see great teachers across the
nation.
And I think it's encouraging
when you hear from the kids what
a difference their teacher
makes to them, and they say,
this person believed in me. This
person helped me with my work.
It was hard. It wasn't easy. But
he or she believed in me. And
they helped me know that
I could do this.
When you hear that, and you hear
it from kids across the nation,
no matter where they're
from, you say, wow, that's
encouraging. We know it's
possible. We know great teaching
happens and is possible. Let's
figure out how to make sure that
all teachers can be
fantastic teachers and get the
feedback they need, so they keep
improving at their craft.
And that's exciting.
GWEN IFILL: Melinda Gates, Bill
Gates, thank you both very much.
MELINDA GATES: Thanks, Gwen.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Next week,
Gwen will have a report from
Seattle that features one of
the prominent voices that has
been pushing back on the Common
Core and encouraging parents
to opt out of testing.
Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": how
California's drought is causing
the state to sink; and
recording artist Josh Groban on
singing Broadway hits. Congress
But, first, cell phones are
ringing furiously at the U.S.
Capitol tonight, as House
Republicans
prepare for a closed-door vote
tomorrow on whom they would like
to be the next speaker
of the House.
Political director Lisa
Desjardins joins us now to
explain the tumultuous time and
what
will be a major decision for
the direction of Congress.
So, first of all, Lisa, I'm sure
you will do this throughout the
interview, but why
does this matter? And there were
some recent dramatic
developments this afternoon too.
Fill us in.
LISA DESJARDINS: This is a
critical decision, Hari,
because, as I don't need to tell
our
viewers, Congress has had some
trouble over the past years in
dealing with major issues
and dealing especially
with fiscal crises.
While there are more fiscal
crises coming, including a debt
ceiling that the U.S. is
about to hit on November 5, the
government runs out of funding
in December. Also, Highway
Trust Fund is about to run out.
These are all issues that are
circulating. These are
all unresolved. And without
clear leadership from the House,
it just makes the current
problems even more
difficult to figure out.
HARI SREENIVASAN: OK. What
happened late this afternoon?
LISA DESJARDINS: All right.
So, I just came from there.
We had a group of conservatives
known as the House Freedom
Caucus. They're partially
responsible
for the ouster of House Speaker
Boehner. They decided to endorse
a new candidate, a relatively
new candidate for speaker, a man
named Daniel Webster from
Florida.
He himself was a House speaker
in the Florida Statehouse. A lot
of folks might not have
heard of him. This is important
for a couple of reasons. These
are who -- this is a man
that conservatives want. We
don't think he has more votes
than the current front-runner.
That's Kevin McCarthy
of California.
But these conservatives may have
enough votes to block Kevin
McCarthy from getting the
majority
that he needs. McCarthy is
facing a lot of doubts right
now, Hari, about his ability,
especially after words he had
about the Benghazi hearings and
about how those affected
Secretary
of State and presidential
candidate Clinton.
But he did try to assuage his
critics this morning when he
spoke to reporters.
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA),
House Majority Leader: I think I
have been very clear when
it comes to Benghazi. I could
have said it in a different
manner, yes.
And I think, at any given time,
somebody could always say
something better. Over time, you
will prove that we have a very
good message. I think the job of
a speaker is to be a team
captain, all part of a team. We
have got a lot of members inside
this conference that
lead a very good job of getting
the message out, and we will
continue to do it.
LISA DESJARDINS: Hari, that's
McCarthy wanting to be team
captain, but, right now, I have
to tell you, there's a lot of
nervousness even among those who
are firmly on his team.
HARI SREENIVASAN: OK. Let's talk
about his sort of -- his biggest
rival, Mr. Chaffetz
of Utah.
LISA DESJARDINS: Right.
I think Mr. -- Jason Chaffetz
also in the hunt here, he's the
number three. And I think
what's interesting is that
Chaffetz is in this because
there is this critical problem.
I spoke to him Monday about what
essentially is a math problem
for both Kevin McCarthy
and for House Republicans.
REP. JASON CHAFFETZ (R), Utah:
And you need 218 votes on the
floor of the House.
The problem for Mr. McCarthy is,
there are roughly 50 or so, and
growing, number of people
who just cannot or will not vote
to promote existing leadership
into the speaker's role.
So, I worry that he is going to
fall short of the 218. It's
going to cause some chaos
internally, and nobody is
arguing with the premise that
Mr. McCarthy might be more than
a few votes shy of
the 218 necessary.
LISA DESJARDINS: Now, I know,
Hari, "NewsHour" is a place
where we can get into a little
bit into the weeds. That
got a lot into the weeds.
Because, what he's saying is
that while Kevin McCarthy may
have more votes than anyone else
for Republicans right now, he
still doesn't have a majority in
the House. So, here's what
we think might happen. Kevin
McCarthy might walk away
tomorrow with more votes than
anyone
else behind closed doors, but he
may not have enough votes for
what matters, the speaker's
election on October 29.
He needs 218 votes. And because
of conservatives supporting
either Chaffetz or Congressman
Webster, no one might have
enough votes right now. This
leads to a very difficult
situation.
One longtime source of mine
tonight called it Neverland.
HARI SREENIVASAN: OK, so what
happens? Is there a scenario
here where either John Boehner
has to stick around and be a
speaker, or do we not have a
number three in line to the
presidency?
LISA DESJARDINS: That's what
happens when you're in
Neverland.
I think that a lot of folks are
reading the rules tonight and
over the next week to see
what could happen if no one gets
218 when a speaker's vote is
held. In the past, in
the history, there have been
many long speaker's elections.
It's been several decades since
we have had one.
But they could just continue to
have ballot votes until someone
reaches 218. Hari, another
plan is sort of evolving
tonight, that if they reach this
point, perhaps Speaker Boehner
does stay in the job until they
find consensus, until
Republicans find a person who
they want
to lead.
Now, again, Kevin McCarthy still
is the leading candidate, but
there are real questions about
his leadership at this point.
And, to be honest, he has got
just another day to try and
shore
that up.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Lisa Desjardins, political
director for the "NewsHour"
joining
us from Capitol Hill
tonight, thanks so much.
LISA DESJARDINS: My pleasure.
HARI SREENIVASAN: California's
drought is resulting in a big
drop. The state is sinking,
and sinking fast. Some parts of
the state are settling lower at
a rate of two inches
a month, according to a report
NASA released last month.
As Nathan Halverson from Reveal
shows us, the sinking is
increasing the flood risk in
one area of the state that
is desperate for water.
This story was produced by
member station KQED in San
Francisco.
MAN: Let's fire it up.
It's better than nothing.
NATHAN HALVERSON: Johnny Andrews
is a third-generation farmer in
California's Central Valley.
JOHNNY ANDREWS, Farmer: My
grandpa came out of Texas, and
he told me years ago, he said,
you know, whiskey is for
drinking. Water is for fighting.
See how it's changing colors?
NATHAN HALVERSON: Andrews is one
of thousands of farmers in the
state struggling to keep
their crops green during
a record drought.
JOHNNY ANDREWS: It's
lifting the water.
NATHAN HALVERSON: He is turning
to what he calls a last resort:
drilling for groundwater.
JOHNNY ANDREWS: You're looking
at $200,000 to drill a well.
You're looking at the pumping
cost every month of about
between $2,500 and $3,500 per
well.
NATHAN HALVERSON: Farmers like
Andrews use about 80 percent of
the state's developed
water, growing everything from
tomatoes to almonds. With the
drought in its fourth year,
farmers are drilling deeper and
deeper, running pumps day and
night.
NATHAN HALVERSON: These are just
running all the time and burning
diesel?
JOHNNY ANDREWS: Yes. They're
running all the time. They're
burning four gallons an hour.
NATHAN HALVERSON: All that
pumping has consequences. As the
groundwater gets drawn up, the
land
sinks down. Scientists
call it subsidence.
The land around me, literally
the dirt underneath my tires, is
sinking, more than a foot per
year in some areas.
No one knows exactly how much
water is being pumped, but
hydrologist Michelle Sneed is
alarmed by how quickly
the ground is sinking.
MICHELLE SNEED, United States
Geological Survey: I have been
studying land subsidence
throughout
the West for 20 years, and I
have never measured rates like
this before.
NATHAN HALVERSON: Over the past
two decades, the ground in one
area has sunk from Sneed's
head to her feet. According to
NASA, some parts of the Central
Valley are now sinking
more than two inches a month.
MICHELLE SNEED: We saw that the
area being affected by
subsidence was enormous,
stretching
all the way from I-5 to 99.
About 1,200 square miles are
being affected by subsidence.
NATHAN HALVERSON: That's an area
the size of Rhode Island, and it
has sunk permanently.
How do you stop those
areas from sinking?
MICHELLE SNEED: Well, the
scientific solution is really
easy. You stop lowering
groundwater
levels. Putting that into
practice is a whole 'nother ball
of wax.
NATHAN HALVERSON: Farmers would
have to cut back on drilling for
water.
CLAUDIA FAUNT, United States
Geological Survey: The center of
it is down south of here.
NATHAN HALVERSON: Sneed's
colleague Claudia Faunt took me
to see some of the damage
subsidence
has already caused.
What have we got going on here?
I mean, it's really buckling.
CLAUDIA FAUNT: Yes. And a few
years ago, when I was here, it
wasn't nearly this bent. So,
it's showing evidence of
continuing to warp even more.
NATHAN HALVERSON: These canals
deliver water to farms and
cities throughout Southern
California,
including Los Angeles.
And this isn't the only one I
see. I mean, I see it here, I
see it right down there,
and I see a third one.
CLAUDIA FAUNT: Yes. There's
another one up that direction as
well.
NATHAN HALVERSON: So, this can
be happening to the bridges, to
the roadways, to the railroads.
CLAUDIA FAUNT: Correct. In fact,
there's a bridge right down the
road from here that
the water level is now coming up
over the base of the road
because that area has sunk.
NATHAN HALVERSON: When I went to
see the bridge, the flood risk
was clear.
The water level has risen up so
high now, that it would go right
over the surface of
the road, if they hadn't built
these retaining walls to keep it
back.
Problems like these are already
costing taxpayers tens of
millions of dollars. And
subsidence
is also damaging a vital part of
California's flood control
system.
CHRIS WHITE, Central California
Irrigation District: So, the
levees through here are
about five to six feet lower
than they were historically.
NATHAN HALVERSON: Chris White
runs the Central California
Irrigation District. He says
subsidence
is weakening levees.
CHRIS WHITE: This area, we have
always had flood challenges
through here. But with this
subsidence that's occurred, it's
going to be even more
challenging to deal with floods
in the future.
NATHAN HALVERSON: Forecasters
are predicting a record El Nino
this winter. The wet weather
pattern could bring heavy
rains to this region.
CHRIS WHITE: Red on
this map is bad.
NATHAN HALVERSON: White showed
me areas most at risk of
flooding.
CHRIS WHITE: There's a school.
There's an elementary school
there. Highway 152 crosses
right through the area. There is
significant farmland assets. I'm
praying for rain regardless,
but it's a high-risk situation
from a flood control standpoint.
NATHAN HALVERSON: Nearly half
the nation's fruits, vegetables
and nuts are produced in
California. To find out what the
state is doing to protect its
vital farmland, I met
with Jeanine Jones of the
governor's Drought Task Force.
JEANINE JONES, California
Department of Water Resources:
Subsidence is not regulated
historically
under California law. No
one is responsible for it.
NATHAN HALVERSON: The state
doesn't even know how big the
subsidence problem is.
We're not even monitoring
all of the subsidence?
JEANINE JONES: There has -- no,
there has not been funding or
programs, because there
has been no statutory
responsibility or requirement to
do so.
NATHAN HALVERSON: Last year,
California lawmakers passed
legislation to manage
groundwater,
but it won't require regulators
to limit pumping for another 25
years. Until then, the sinking
will likely continue.
So, how much is the state
projecting this subsidence is
going to cost taxpayers?
JEANINE JONES: We have not run
that analysis. It is a local
scale issue, so -- and most
local agencies -- because
subsidence happens very slowly,
and over the long term, it is
not something that comes to the
top of the priority list
generally in terms of
maintenance.
NATHAN HALVERSON: The
independent nonprofit California
Water Foundation has estimated
that damage due to subsidence
across the state could cost
taxpayers billions of dollars to
fix.
Do you think a billion dollars
is a high estimate for what the
total costs will be or a low
estimate?
JEANINE JONES: I really don't
have anything to judge it by.
Just don't have the data.
NATHAN HALVERSON: For some
farmers, drilling for water has
provided a lifeline during the
drought. But the long-term
consequences of that drilling
are becoming clearer. As large
swathes of the state continue to
sink, the risk of flooding
increases.
And people like Johnny Andrews,
whose farms have survived four
dry years, are now worried
they could be wiped out by the
rain the state desperately
needs.
JOHNNY ANDREWS: We're talking
about the state and feeding the
people in the state. If that
flood is bad enough, it will
wipe out the next year's
farming, or a lot of it.
NATHAN HALVERSON: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm Nathan Halverson
in Los Banos, California.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In response to
the NASA report, Governor Jerry
Brown's Drought Task
Force announced it would work
with local communities to
develop recommendations aimed at
reducing
subsidence.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Finally
tonight: Recording artist Josh
Groban recently kicked off a
tour
for his latest album, "Stages,"
which features covers of songs
from Broadway.
His music has sold more than
25 million albums worldwide.
Jeffrey Brown caught up with him
about his multiplatinum career
and the role of the arts
in his life from an early age.
JEFFREY BROWN: I think I want to
start with the song, the idea of
the song. What it that
attracts you to one? What makes
you feel you must sing it?
JOSH GROBAN, Musician: Well,
there is a little bit of a head
vs. heart kind of battle that
happens sometimes with the song.
There's the goose bump thing,
where the melody or whatever it
is just gets you and you don't
know why. Sometimes, it's in a
genre that you didn't think you
liked and, all of a sudden,
the song hits you and you just
say, wow, I feel the hairs on
the back of my neck. I love
this song.
And then there's the cerebral
side of, you know, what is this
song saying? What is the
story that I want to tell here?
JEFFREY BROWN: You
think about story?
JOSH GROBAN: You think about
that. You think about, is the
lyric smart enough? Is it
something
that satisfies
that side as well?
And so when those two things
come together, you realize it is
the song. And sometimes
the song is not in the language
that you are fluent in, so
sometimes the song is a demo
that you have recorded at 2:00
in the morning, where you have
goose bumps, but it's all in
gibberish at this point because
you haven't put a lyric to it.
And then sometimes...
JEFFREY BROWN: You're not sure
what the story is at that point,
right.
JOSH GROBAN: You're not sure
what the story is. But for
whatever reason, that, whatever
that is, has the it factor. And
it really all comes down to from
the moment that happens
to the moment you have mastered
it and put it out, that that
feeling happens.
JEFFREY BROWN: You know, in the
latest album, "Stages," you are
specifically taking great
songs from musical theater,
right, and doing what with them?
Because these are songs that, in
many cases, have been
interpreted many times.
JOSH GROBAN: Countless
times, yes.
And that's intimidating. And
so there are some songs...
JEFFREY BROWN: It is, right?
JOSH GROBAN: Oh,
very intimidating.
You're taking off the songwriter
hat and you're putting on the
interpretive hat. And with
that comes a great
responsibility. And so, as a
singer, of course,
self-indulgently,
it's a joy to take a song like
"Somewhere Over the Rainbow" or
"Bring Him Home" and
say, OK, well, I'm just
-- I'm going to sing it.
JEFFREY BROWN: Do you listen
to the other renditions?
JOSH GROBAN: I have of
course listened to them.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. How
could you not, right?
JOSH GROBAN: They have been
in our DNA for so many years.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
JOSH GROBAN: But I don't listen
to them with the intent on
recording them or singing them
the same way. I listen to them
for inspiration based on the
fact that the songs are so
universal,
that so many different people
can record them and have their
own moment with them.
JEFFREY BROWN: I noticed that,
in some cases, you did strip
them down to a much more
spare...
JOSH GROBAN: Yes. That was a
nice surprise when that
happened. We fully intended on
putting
the full orchestrations. We did
it at Abbey Road with most of
the London Philharmonic.
And then there were the songs
where we really felt like taking
a breath from that. Like,
"Bring Him Home" was just piano,
one take. Just worked
surprisingly well. And that's
a testament to the melody.
JEFFREY BROWN: Do you like the
power of that orchestra behind
you? I mean, that's how we
see you most times, right?
JOSH GROBAN: Yes, I really do. I
would be lying if I said I
didn't. It's a pretty cool
feeling. It's a high-five to the
15-year old theater geek
whenever you're standing in that
room.
JEFFREY BROWN: Is that
15-year old there?
JOSH GROBAN: Oh, absolutely.
JEFFREY BROWN: He's
sitting in front of me.
JOSH GROBAN: He is. He's there.
He's definitely there. He
couldn't grow a beard then.
That's
different.
JEFFREY BROWN: Right. Right.
But he wanted to be in front of
the orchestra and on the stage?
JOSH GROBAN: Absolutely. The
9-year-old, 5-year-old me wanted
that.
JEFFREY BROWN: Really?
JOSH GROBAN: I had the bug at a
very young age. And it's truly
because of the arts exposure
that I had from my parents, from
teachers, from PBS that allowed
me...
JEFFREY BROWN: You're welcome
on behalf of all of us.
JOSH GROBAN: Well, yes,
absolutely. I have so much
thanks for that, because it
really
gave me that spark. It made me
realize that that's out there.
And, in turn, it gave me
my first moments of truly my
most honest voice and real
communication.
JEFFREY BROWN: You have, as much
as anyone perhaps, found the
space in a -- some call
it a crossover world or
different genres. Right?
JOSH GROBAN: Sure.
JEFFREY BROWN: What do you see
yourself as doing? Who are you
reaching to, what are you
aiming for?
JOSH GROBAN (singing):
Who am I anyway?
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. Is this
something you think about or is
just -- did it all just...
JOSH GROBAN: No.
And that's the kind of
off-putting thing, when you read
about people putting you in
a place or what genre you are or
subgenre that you're in. It's
jarring when you read
that stuff, because I'm just me
to me. And the songs that I sing
and the songs that I
write have always just been what
I feel my voice does well, and
what my inspirations
have been and a kind of
culmination of everything.
But the voices that I grew up
loving are the voices that,
within five seconds, you can
tell exactly who that is.
JEFFREY BROWN: When you look out
that far -- and I get to talk to
a lot of especially
musicians nowadays in a hugely
changing music history, right?
JOSH GROBAN: Oh, yes, for sure.
JEFFREY BROWN: How do you
maintain the success you have
had? How do you reach new
audiences?
You're still with a record --
records are -- you're still
making albums, right?
JOSH GROBAN: Sure,
yes. Yes, sure. Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: In an age where
that's almost -- nobody does it.
JOSH GROBAN: Yes, of course.
Well, there's kind of a singles
mentality now. We have all kind
of -- there's a whole
new generation that's being --
that is kind of being
conditioned to stream, and
download
song after song. And I think
that my course doesn't change.
I still want to make an album
from song one to song 12 that is
an experience for my fans.
Truly, it's up to every artist
to still make great music, and
not let the immediacy of
the technology make the artist
lazy. You still can't download a
great concert where someone
is in the seat and feeling goose
bumps in a great theater. So,
that's why I love touring
so much.
JEFFREY BROWN: I see you're
doing a lot more acting now.
Does this signify a certain
restlessness from music or...
JOSH GROBAN: It is, definitely.
It's a side of my brain that is
saying you have got to
do some of this.
I was a theater major in high
school I was at an arts high
school, so I was able to study
drama there. I eventually went
to Carnegie Mellon University
for musical theater training.
I left to sign a record deal.
And music became my everything.
But the acting was definitely
half of what I loved about
storytelling and about theater.
So, when I get a chance to do a
cameo in a show or do a movie,
it's a lot of fun and
it's always great stepping
outside of yourself and either
playing a bizarro version of
yourself
or playing a character.
So, yes, there will more,
hopefully doing some Broadway in
the next year. We will see.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, Broadway,
that's big-bore, yes?
JOSH GROBAN: Yes, it would
be. Yes, it would be a...
JEFFREY BROWN: That's not --
from your high school stage to a
little camera on TV to Broadway,
that was a big leap
you just made.
JOSH GROBAN: No.
Yes, it would be a great leap.
And the reason that it hasn't
happened so far is because
it takes so much time and effort
to mount a Broadway production,
and something that
you can put the time and effort
into. And so I'm constantly
looking at things. I have
been honored to have had some
wonderful offers in the last few
years, but the timing hasn't
worked out.
So, I'm really looking at this
next year to hopefully make that
leap and hopefully include
some of the acting
into what I do.
JEFFREY BROWN: Josh Groban,
thank you so much.
JOSH GROBAN: Thanks
for having me.
HARI SREENIVASAN: PBS will air a
full concert called "Josh
Groban: Stages" live in
December.
Check your local
listings for more.
On the "NewsHour" online: It's
two distinct sounds you are
probably familiar with, only
not like this. Canadian band A
Tribe Called Red combines Native
American powwow with electronic
dance music, and the result is a
rhythmic surprise. You can
listen yourself on our home
page.
You can also watch our full
interviews from tonight, Judy's
conversation with Hillary
Clinton in Iowa, plus Gwen's
interview with Bill and Melinda
Gates -- all that and more
at PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the
"NewsHour" for tonight.
On Thursday, Gwen sits down with
the U.S. attorney general,
Loretta Lynch.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening. For all of us
at the "PBS NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.